welcome back to movie recaps today i
will show you an action drama thriller
film from 2018 titled red sparrow
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the story begins by jumping back and
forth between the lives of our two
protagonists in russia
first there is dominica igorova a famous
ballerina that is in charge of taking
care of her sick mom
after a visit to the doctor dominica
leaves her mother with a caretaker so
she can go to work once in the theater
she changes and puts on makeup before
going to meet the guests which include
her uncle ivan agora deputy director of
russian secret service he introduces her
to dmitry houston off a russian gangster
that asks her for a picture and takes
the chance to touch her improperly
moments later the play begins and
dominica is dancing as wonderfully as
everyone suddenly his dancing partner
jumps and lands on her leg breaking it
dominica is immediately taken to have
surgery the other character we follow is
nate nash a cia agent who is taking a
phone call from an automatic caller that
dictates some words to him he uses those
words to decode the address of a meeting
location and he takes his gun with him
before leaving the chosen spot for the
secret meeting is the park at night and
when he arrives there he notices he's
being followed by a car
a mysterious man code named marble is
walking towards him as well and nate
hands him something as they cross each
other on the road before they go on as
if nothing happened the car is still
following him though so to give the man
a chance to escape nate creates a
distraction by shooting the floor and
starts running away as the car gives him
chase he reaches town and is surrounded
by the police just as he makes it to the
american embassy inside he meets with
his bosses who tell him the asset is
safe but nate will still be sent back to
the usa for his mistake the next day
ivan visits colonel zakarov director of
the secret service in his office general
vladimir korchnoy is there as well
they show ivan a video of nate's meeting
at the park and mention he's a cia agent
that left the country that morning but
their main interest lies in the other
man and finding out his identity we cut
to dominica then who is waking up at the
hospital to find her leg in a metal
frame she starts crying when she
realizes she won't be able to dance
again
three months pass dominica who is still
walking with the aid of a cane is
visited by ivan he comments on the fact
a replacement for her has already been
found and how the theater had been
lending them the apartment and covering
her mom's medical expenses all that will
stop soon now that she doesn't work for
them anymore ivan says he wants to help
her and asks her to come to him when
she's ready he also leaves an envelope
for her before leaving dominica opens
the envelope and finds pictures that
show her dancing partner has been
romantically involved with her
replacement plus a recording of a
conversation between them that implies
he jumped on her on purpose so his
girlfriend could take dominica's place
later that day we find dominica in the
theater watching her former partner and
the new girl practice
after they're done they go to the steam
room and dominica follows them only to
find them having relations
rage takes over and dominica starts
using her cane to beat them both to the
ground before running away on the bus
home she sees her hand stained with
blood and decides to get off stopping by
a pay phone to report what she did as an
accident when she arrives at her
apartment she finds her mom on the
bathroom floor the caretaker nowhere in
sight her mom tells her she didn't come
because the theater stopped paying her
knowing she has no other choice now
dominica goes to see her uncle to ask
him for help he accepts as long as she
helps him in return with a little case
the secret service wants to know more
about eustanoff whom dominica had met at
the theater ivan wants her to approach
him befriend him and gain his trust
using her charms dominica at first
refuses but ivan wins her over by
reminding her how awful state hospitals
are and how he can give her mom the best
doctors instead
that very night dominica goes to the
hotel houston off is staying in wearing
the dress she's been given
she goes to the bar to wait for houston
off to approach her first which he does
dominica tells him she's come to see him
wanting to feel special again so they
leave for her room
she asked the guards to give them
privacy and eustana starts undressing as
soon as his men leave the room then asks
dominica to do the same
she does so after some hesitation and
when she comes closer houston off wastes
no time in taking advantage of her their
intercourse is suddenly interrupted when
a man wearing a black helmet appears
behind houston often cuts his throat the
body is thrown on the floor and after
asking for silence with a gesture the
man throws dominica a coat for her to
cover her bloodstained body and takes
her out of the room through a back door
when they make it to the parking lot he
shoots an employee before getting them
on his bike and driving away to an
abandoned building inside the man takes
off his helmet to reveal sergey matoran
another secret service agent sent by
ivan who is in another room in the same
building together with courtney watching
dominica on the security cameras when
courtney mentions she's a witness and
she should be eliminated ivan mentioned
she could be useful
ivan changes rooms to go see dominica
and confesses he did know what would
happen in that room and didn't tell her
because she wouldn't have done it if she
knew he makes her an offer then since
she's so good at this she can be sent to
a special institution to be trained to
be an agent if she refuses he won't be
able to protect her so she can only
accept dominica leaves for the
institution a couple of days later when
she arrives there she's received by
matron the headmistress of sparrow
school
she gives dominica a fake name to use in
the school before taking her to her room
classes start soon after that matron
talks about the modern world being in
chaos and how russia is the only country
willing to make sacrifices to fix it the
students will be trained to be sparrows
spies who specialized in seduction and
psychological manipulation dominica and
a student named victor are called to the
front of the class and asked to strip
victor does so without issues but
dominica doesn't dare matron scolds her
for it
we then cut to nate who's been summoned
by the cia's disciplined panel to be
informed he'll be suspended for his
mistake in russia and he can't leave the
country made protests because they're
mole marble has been working with nate
for three years and won't trust anybody
else but he isn't hurt
back in the sparrow school during a
class with matron she tells them they
need to be able to identify what their
targets want she puts some videos on tv
for examples for them to work on the
first one victor guesses wrong and
dominica corrects him earning her his
dislike
the second is guest by another female
student who is called to the front of
the class and told she will have to use
her mouth on the man from the video who
is brought into the classroom in cuffs
the girl gets on her knees but is
incapable of doing it she falls to the
floor crying matron reminds all the
students that they need to learn to
trick their bodies and teaches them some
basic seduction tricks back in the usa
nate notices he's being tailed and
informs his superiors at this he learns
that the cia hasn't heard anything from
marvel and he takes the chance to remind
them he will talk if it's nate that
contacts him they reach a deal he can't
still go back to russia but they can
send into a country nearby so the
russian secret service will know he's
around and marble will resurface
nate accepts for the team to come with
him
meanwhile in the school the students are
asked to give a welcome to a group of
soldiers that just returned home from
war dominica chooses a young man and
takes him to a room where she
successfully gives him a hand
later that day matron and the students
watch all the videos of their
performances with the soldiers matron
tells dominica her technique was good
but she still hasn't learned to give
herself up after class is over dominica
goes to the showers where she's
assaulted by victor she defends herself
by taking the water tap from the wall
and hitting him with it
in the meantime ivan korchnoy and
zakharov are discussing the fact made
has been relocated to budapest they want
to do something about it but they know
the president doesn't want them anything
that may come off as antagonistic
against the usa ivan proposes they give
the mission to someone else
back in the sparrow school matron and
the newly arrived courtney questioned
dominica for her attack on victor matron
thinks dominica still has potential
fornoy asks for a moment alone with her
after everyone else leaves the room he
questions dominica again and she
explained she owes and serves the state
not her classmate she's allowed to go
back to class where matron once again
calls her to the front while courtney
watches from a security camera dominica
is shown a picture of victor and asked
what he wants as he enters the room
matron orders her to give him what he
wants
victor asks her to turn around dominica
refuses and gets into action as she
undresses he tells victor to look at
only her and once she's completely naked
she sits on the table with her legs open
egging him on to take her
victor can't get it up and runs away
when she teases him for it then dominica
answers matron's question what he wants
his power korchnoy is impressed
moments later matron meets with dominica
in private again and tells her she'll be
sent back to moscow
days later while reuniting with her mom
at their place dominica receives a call
that tells her to meet ivan at a
restaurant when she makes it there she
sits with him and he explains her next
mission she'll be sent to budapest to
befriend nate and gain his trust so she
can learn the identity of their mole he
gives her a new passport and documents
with a new name dominica leaves without
eating
she makes it to budapest a couple of
days later and goes to stay at an
apartment she'll share with a fellow
sparrow marta later that day she meets
with her new boss station chief maxim
valentov and asks him for some
information on nate afterward she
follows nate around to learn his routine
the next day dominica starts going to
the same swimming pool as nate and lets
him go to her when they leave the
building they chitchat a bit but
dominica plays hard to get she also
makes up a story about being a
translator for the embassy the following
day however she doesn't find nate at the
pool and the receptionist tells her her
id has gone missing
turns out nate already knows she isn't
what she says
we cut to him explaining to his
superiors that she's been using many
names and making the connection to ivan
he thinks she's valuable and that her
using her real name is a provocation
after some hesitation his superiors
allow him to get closer to her to gather
intel
after going to voluntov to report her
progress and ask for an embassy pass
dominica visits the embassy and sees
marta chatting with stephanie baucher an
american politician
nate interrupts her staring to chat
admitting he was the one to steal her id
from the pool and asks her out to dinner
the next day at eight dominica accepts
before leaving back in her apartment
dominica searches marta's room and
discovers she's been buying intelligence
from voucher marta returns home then but
doesn't catch her in the act she gives
dominica a copy of the report voluntoff
sent to moscow apparently dominica has
made an enemy the next day after work
she follows voluntoff into a bar and
asks him to buy her time with a better
report then provokes him into punching
her by making fun of his small member
his violence is now on the security
cameras and dominica tells him he'll
write a better report or she'll take the
recording to the police while all this
is happening nate is alone in a
restaurant waiting for his date thinking
he's been stood up he leaves the place
but dominica is following him closely
back in his apartment nate receives
another coded message on the phone that
he quickly writes down and deciphers it
says bienna he's about to leave when a
crying dominica rings his bell he allows
her to come in
while sharing some whiskey dominica
tells him his boss assaulted him
when nate asks her how she knows where
he lives she raises the volume of the tv
so they can't be heard dominica asks him
what happened in that park in russia and
kisses him after he tells her nate tells
her to go home and figure out what she
wants
the next day ivan visits dominica before
leaving for vienna he asked about her
progress with nate since their superiors
are getting impatient to buy time she
lies and tells him she's also working
with marta on her bouncer case but
she'll need more money ivan accepts and
asks for his coat to leave dominica gets
it for him but not without secretly
taking a peek at his passport after he's
gone marta approaches dominica with her
gun she overhead the lie and is angry
because the bouncer case is supposed to
be only hers dominica promises she'll
give her all the credit and more money
she just lied for the extra time marta
only accepts because she has no other
choice
later on dominica goes to vienna and
opens a bank account there while marta
visits voluntoff to tell him she knows
how to get rid of dominica
dominica returns to her place that night
and finds marta murdered in the bathtub
suddenly sergey appears behind her and
grabs her by the neck to pass on a
warning this is what happens to those
that share secrets he also tells her to
call the police before he disappears
we cut to nate there who is reporting to
his superiors about having met with
marvel in vienna marvel has given him
some files confirming dominica is a
sparrow and that makes nate think she's
even more recruitable
meanwhile dominica is being interrogated
by the police but she tells them nothing
when she leaves the precinct she finds
nate outside waiting for her they go
back to his place where he confesses he
knows she's a sparrow dominica tells him
her story in return putting emphasis on
the fact she only cares about her
mother's well-being nate asks her to be
a double agent for him promising her
protection she replies she needs to
sleep he gives her his room
later in the night she leaves the room
and joins nate on the touch after asking
if she can trust him and getting a
positive answer she makes love to him
the next morning after she confirms she
accepts his deal dominica goes back to
her routine writes a fake report on nate
saying she has him in her pocket and
then returns to her place to wait for
his signal which is a simple phone call
that plays her favorite song
dominica meets with nate's superiors and
is put through a liar detector test to
see if she can be trusted when they
accept her she asks for money they laugh
at her but they change their minds when
she tells them she can give them voucher
the following friday the whole team
flies to london to meet with voucher
dominica stays in a special hotel room
the cia prepared for her with security
cameras to monitor her in a set of discs
hidden under a desk to change for the
real ones later moments later while
she's at the bar waiting for bouncer
he's surprised by the sudden appearance
of voluntov who supposedly wants to help
dominika sends him to her room otherwise
his presence will scare bouncer off
voucher arrives soon afterward and
dominica goes to her explaining marta
center voucher doesn't like this change
and is about to leave but dominica
convinces her to stay when she threatens
her with some dangerous pictures and
mentions the money both women go to
dominica's room where voluntoff is
waiting voucher gives her the discs in
exchange for the money and dominica
pretends to take the discs to her
computer to check their reel when she's
actually trading them with the cia's
dominica and voluntoff leave then after
telling voucher to wait an hour to leave
to but voucher is anxious and drunk so
she leaves soon after
when she makes it to the street she
notices she's being followed and gets
scared so she throws the money in a
trash can and crosses the street where a
truck hits and kills her dominica is in
a car with voluntoff when this happens
and he quickly gets the news on the
phone
he tells dominica they've been given
orders to return to moscow immediately
and takes her passport
when they make it to moscow ivan takes
the disks from voluntoff before
arresting him vothi and dominica are
under suspicion of having helped the
americans
when asked about it she denies it so she
starts being tortured in different ways
for the real answer but she doesn't give
in
they even show her a video of how
voluntov was shot for lying but when the
interrogator points at her head and she
lies again nothing happens ivan takes
over then and dominica manages to
manipulate him into protecting her she's
allowed to return home but when she gets
there she feels so dirty she doesn't let
her mom hug her
after a difficult meeting with korchnoy
and zakarov ivan returns to his
apartment where dominica is waiting he
tells her they've granted her request to
let her keep working on nate she kisses
him before leaving
dominica returns to budapest and meets
with nate they go to his apartment where
he expresses his suspicions of her quick
release dominica convinces him to
relocate her and her mom to america and
to give her more money he accepts before
they make love
in the middle of the night dominica
wakes up when she hears a noise she goes
to the kitchen to find sergey torturing
nate she pretends to be on his side at
first even helping him hurt nate to get
the name of the mole but when sergei
gets distracted she hits him back and
helps nate cut the straps tying him to
the chair
the three of them get into a fight that
doesn't last long sergei slips and
dominica takes the chance to stab him
she wakes up in the hospital the next
day and leaves her room to have a smoke
she's then approached by korchnoy who
reveals himself as marvel he thinks
he'll be caught soon and doesn't want to
die in vain so he asks dominica to
expose him so she can become a national
hero and take his place as a mole she
doesn't give him a definite answer but
after he leaves she checks on nate and
leaves as well
she gives herself up to the police and
asks to see the russian ambassador when
she's taken to him she tells him to call
zakharov and inform him she has the name
of the mole which she'll give him in
exchange for her freedom
a meeting to do the exchange is arranged
later that night at an airport nate will
walk with her to confirm the identity of
the mole and she mustn't try to run or
she'll be shot nate is angry with her
because he thinks she's used him but she
has a surprise when the russians
approach them with a mole they take the
bag off his face to reveal it's not
corchnoy it's her uncle ivan who has
been framed thanks to dominica
fabricating evidence since she made it
to budapest the first time
nate quickly catches on and confirms
ivan is the mole
after the exchange is done ivan is shot
by a russian sniper and dominica is
taken away on a helicopter
back in russia she's named a heroine and
allowed to have a good life with her mom
the movie ends when she receives a phone
call and the only sound on the line is
her favorite song
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching